Pregnancy Leave 
Pregnancy Leave, which is part of the Company’s Medical Leave Program, provides up to eight weeks of salary continuation
benefits to employees with three or more years of service. If an employee has fewer than three years of service, the 
amount of paid time is reduced, according to the salary continuation schedule (see section on Medical Leave Policy). 
However, an employee may receive state disability benefits (where applicable) for any portion of her pregnancy disability 
period not covered by salary continuation benefits. 

Benefits are typically provided for the two weeks prior to the employee’s due date and six weeks after the birth of the 
child following a normal delivery. If the employee has a Caesarean Section, she is eligible for up to ten weeks of paid 
Pregnancy Leave, dependent upon length of service, with eight weeks allowed for recuperation after the child’s birth. 

If an employee chooses to work up until her delivery date, she does not forfeit any of her paid leave time. For example, 
if an employee with three or more years of service works up to the delivery date, she will still be eligible for the full 
eight weeks of paid leave beginning on that day. New York Life will not require a pregnant employee to stop working at 
any time during her pregnancy, provided she is able to perform the duties of her job. 

If an employee remains disabled longer than the eight weeks allowed under the Pregnancy Leave, the employee may request an 
extension of the leave. To do this, the employee must provide medical certification, stating the reasons for the disability, 
to UnumProvident. 

Child Care Leave/Paternity Leave 
An unpaid Child Care Leave is offered to all employees, male (paternity) and female, following the birth or adoption of a 
child. This leave must be concluded within 12 months of the date of the child's birth or adoption.

If an employee begins the unpaid Child Care Leave immediately after the completion of any paid Pregnancy Leave 
(or immediately after the birth or adoption of the child if paid Pregnancy Leave is not available), the employee may take 
off up to a total of 6 months from the date of birth or adoption. This six-month period will include any paid Pregnancy 
Leave taken after the birth plus the unpaid Child Care Leave.

If an employee chooses not to take the unpaid Child Care Leave immediately, he or she may only take off up to a total of 
12 weeks. This 12-week period includes, and may be reduced by, any paid Pregnancy Leave taken before and after the birth 
and any other medical or FMLA leaves taken within the prior 12 months.

Any unpaid Child Care Leave taken pursuant to this policy will run concurrently with any unpaid leave available to the 
employee under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) or any applicable state family leave laws.



Family and Medical Leave Act Policy (FMLA) 
Employees who have been employed for at least one year and who have at least 1,250 working hours in the previous 12 months 
are eligible for leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). This Act entitles eligible employees up to 12 weeks 
of unpaid, job-protected leave in a 12-month period for one or more of the following qualifying events: 

Birth or care for an employee's newborn child;

Placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care; 

Care for an employee's spouse, child or parent who has a serious health condition; or 

Employee's own serious health condition. 


The following guidelines and rules apply to the Company's FMLA policy:

All family and medical leaves that fall within the requirements of the FMLA will run concurrently with the Company’s other 
family and medical leave policies. 

The “12-month” period in which the 12 weeks of leave entitlement occurs is a “rolling 12-month period” measured backward 
from the date an employee uses any FMLA leave. 

FMLA leaves are not chargeable to the employee's attendance record and are unpaid, except those for an employee’s own 
serious health condition which run concurrently with the Company’s Medical Leave Program. If the amount of the leave time 
which is paid is less than the amount of FMLA time needed, the additional leave time necessary to attain a maximum of 12 
weeks will be unpaid. 


Medical certification is required to support a request for leave due to a serious health condition. This certification 
applies to an employee’s own serious health condition or the serious health condition of a parent, spouse or child. 
The employee must contact UnumProvident as soon as the leave is requested and promptly provide appropriate medical 
certification. The Company may require a second and third opinion, at the Company’s expense. Failure to provide 
appropriate certification may result in denial of the leave. In addition, failure to submit medical certification within 
2 weeks of the first day absent will generally result in the suspension of salary continuation benefits. If medical 
certification is not received within a month of the employee’s first day absent, the leave will be considered unexcused 
and the employee may be subject to termination of employment. 

It is the employee's responsibility to notify the Company and UnumProvident when any time off from work is being requested 
under FMLA. If a leave is foreseeable, 30 days advance notice is required. If 30 days notice is not possible, the employee 
should give as much notice as possible. Failure to properly notify the Company and UnumProvident may result in denial of 
the leave. 

If salary continuation benefits are exhausted and the employee is still unable to return to work, any unused accrued 
vacation time may be applied to extend the paid leave. Unused accrued vacation time may also be used after any unpaid 
FMLA leave. 

Employees on a leave at the end of the calendar year or which overlaps into the next year will be paid out for unused 
accrued vacation time in excess of 5 days. Unused accrued vacation of up to 5 days will be carried over to the next year. 

Leave for the birth or care of a newborn child or care of a newly adopted child and a newly placed foster child cannot 
be taken intermittently and may only be taken within 12 months of that birth or placement. 

Time off for a serious health condition — either a family member’s or the employee’s own condition — can be taken 
intermittently or on a reduced schedule. 

Any approved intermittent time off taken in connection with a recent FMLA leave for an employee’s own illness will be 
paid through the Salary Continuation Program. If the employee has exhausted his or her salary continuation benefit, 
the FMLA intermittent time off will generally be unpaid. 

Short term absences for an employee’s own illness that qualify as FMLA but are not connected to a recent FMLA leave will 
be paid provided the employee does not exceed 7 short-term paid absences within a rolling 12 month period. 

For the duration of the FMLA leave, the Company will maintain the employee's health coverage under any "group health plan" 
(medical, dental and health care spending account). During the period of the leave, in accordance with Company policy, 
an employee will continue to be responsible for his or her share of health coverage premiums. In order to maintain 
non-health benefits (LTD, Life, AD&D, Dependent Life, Legal Services, where applicable), the employee will also be 
responsible for his or her share of the applicable premiums. 

Upon return from FMLA leave, most employees will be restored to their original or equivalent position, pay, benefits, 
and other employment terms. 

If an employee fails to return to work, he or she will be notified of rights to continue group health plan benefits 
under COBRA. All other non-health plan benefits will be canceled retroactive to the date the unpaid leave commenced. 

An employee will not be penalized for taking FMLA leave. 

Any state or local law that provides greater family and medical leave rights supersedes this policy.
